Stop!
This Rules Reference Guide does not teach players how to
play the game. Players should first read the Learn to Play
booklet, then use this Rules Reference Guide as needed when
playing the game.

Introduction

Glossary

This section of the Rules Reference Guide lists every core rule
for Imperial Assault in alphabetical order. This allows players to
quickly find answers to questions during gameplay by looking up
the entry in question.
Each entry lists the basic rule first, followed by a list of exceptions
and additional details. Lastly, each entry lists some related topics
that may hold additional information that is relevant to the topic.

“I only hope that when the data is analyzed, a weakness can be
found.” – Leia Organa, A New Hope

Abilities

This guide is the definitive source for all Imperial Assault rules.
Unlike the Learn to Play booklet, this guide addresses complex
and unusual gameplay situations.

All text on cards and hero sheets are referred to as abilities.
Abilities provide special effects that can be performed above and
beyond the standard rules of the game.

Most rules in this guide apply whether playing a campaign or a
skirmish. Any rules that apply to only one or the other are labeled
with “during a campaign” or “during a skirmish.”

Abilities can have one or more requirements. If the requirements
cannot be met, the ability cannot be performed.

The rules in this guide can be read by any player at any point
before, after, or during a game.

Golden Rules
If a rule in this guide contradicts a rule in the Learn to Play
booklet or Skirmish Guide, the rule in this reference guide takes
priority.
Card abilities can override the rules listed in this guide. Mission
rules can override both card abilities and rules from this guide.
If a card or mission uses the word cannot, that effect is absolute
and cannot be overridden by other effects.

Card Interpretations
Many cards use the word “you” to refer to a figure instead of the
player. For example, if a Deployment card reads “While attacking,
you may reroll 1 or more attack dice” any figure belonging to that
card’s group may reroll one die while it is attacking.

Timing
Numerous game effects have the possibility of triggering at the
same time. If this occurs, use the following to determine the order
in which these effects are resolved:
In a campaign, resolve mission rules first, followed by effects
triggered by the Imperial player, then effects triggered by Rebel
players.
In a skirmish, resolve mission rules first, followed by effects
triggered by the player with initiative, then effects triggered by his
opponent.
During an attack, in both a campaign and a skirmish, resolve
mission rules first, followed by effects triggered by the attacker,
then effects triggered by the defender.
For additional information on timing conflicts, see “Conflicts” on
page 9.

2 Rules Reference guide
IMPERIAL ASSAULT-CORE GAME

• If an ability is “used,” it can be triggered multiple times each
round, but it can only be triggered once per timing instance.
For example, an ability that says, “Use while attacking to apply
+1H to the attack results,” can only be triggered once during
each attack.
• Some abilities have costs which must be paid in order to
resolve the ability. Here is a list of the different types of ability
costs:
-- A: These abilities are performed as an action.
-- B: A surge (B) result must be spent during an attack to
use this ability.
-- C: These abilities appear in the campaign. The hero must
suffer the listed amount of C (strain) without exceeding his
endurance in order to use this ability.
-- D: These abilities appear in the campaign. The Imperial
player must spend the listed amount of D (threat) to use
this ability.
-- Exhaust: The player must exhaust the card to use this ability.
-- Deplete: The player must deplete the card to use this ability.
• A figure can perform each special action ability (listed on his
cards by A) only once per activation.
• An ability that can be used “during your activation” can be
used before or after performing an action during an activation.
It cannot be used while resolving an action.
• An ability that causes one or more figures to suffer damage
(such as Darth Vader’s “Force Choke”) is not considered
to be an attack and does not count toward a figure’s attack
limitations.
Related Topics: Attacks, Deplete, Exhaust, Endurance, Strain,
Threat

Accuracy
Ranged attacks (O) need enough Accuracy to not miss the target
figure. The amount of Accuracy needed is equal to the number of
spaces the attacker is away from the target (see “Counting Spaces”
on page 9).
• The attacker’s total Accuracy is determined by adding all
numbers rolled on dice, and applying any Accuracy modifiers
provided by abilities.
• While attacking an adjacent figure with a ranged attack, the
attacker needs at least 1 Accuracy.
Related Topics: Attacks, Counting Spaces, Line of Sight, Miss

-- When it is their opportunity to resolve an activation, the
Rebel players choose which Rebel figure will activate.
-- A hero can suffer 1C (strain) during his activation to gain 1
movement point. He may do this up to twice per activation.
-- If a hero has two activation tokens, he cannot resolve his
second activation until after each hero has resolved its first
activation.
-- A hero readies all of his Item and Class cards at the start of
his activation.
-- In a three hero game, Rebel players choose one hero to claim
a second activation token at the end of each round.

• The figure is not required to perform both actions.

• A figure ends its activation after performing both of its actions
and spending its remaining movement points. A player may
choose to end his figure’s activation without performing both
actions or spending all of its movement points. Remaining
actions and unspent movement points do not carry over to a
figure’s next activation.

• Each action must be resolved completely before the figure
performs its next action.

• After resolving an activation, exhaust the figure’s activation
token (for heroes) or Deployment card (for all other figures).

• Special actions are denoted on components by the A icon.
A figure can choose to spend one of its actions to resolve a
special action from one of its cards. If an ability has two A
icons, it costs the figure two of its actions to resolve this ability.

• If all friendly groups are exhausted, that player cannot perform
any more activations this round. The player’s opponent(s)
continue to resolve activations until all groups are exhausted.

Actions
During a figure’s activation, it may perform two actions. The
available actions are Attack, Move, Interact, Rest, and Special.

-- When a special action contains multiple attacks, or a move
and an attack, it still only requires the listed number of
actions to perform.
• Movement points can be spent before or after performing
an action. If movement points are gained as part of a special
action, they must be spent immediately during that action.
• A figure can perform the same action multiple times during
the same activation except as follows:
-- A non-hero figure can use only one of its actions to perform
an attack per activation.
-- A figure can perform each special action only once per
activation.
• Numerous game effects allow figures to attack, rest, interact, or
perform a move without performing an action.
Related Topics: Activation, Attacks, Movement, Interact, Rest

Activation
During each Activation Phase, each figure receives one activation.
During a figure’s activation, it performs up to two actions.
• Players alternate resolving activations. After a player finishes
resolving an activation, one of his opponents then resolves an
activation.
• While activating a group of two or more figures, the player
resolves two actions for each figure in that group before his
opponent resolves an activation. He must resolve both actions
for one figure before activating the next figure.

• Abilities that trigger “during” a figure’s activation are used
before or after either of that figure’s two actions.
Related Topics: Active Missions, Exhaust, Deployment Cards, Group

Activation Phase
The first phase of each round is the Activation Phase. During this
phase, players alternate activating groups of figures.
• While activating a group of two or more figures, the player
activates all figures in the group, one at a time, in the order of
his choice.
• During a campaign mission, Rebel and Imperial players
alternate activating groups of figures. The Rebel players resolve
the first activation each round.
• During a skirmish, players alternate activating groups of figures.
The player with initiative resolves the first activation each round.
• During a skirmish, if a player has fewer ready Deployment
cards than his opponent, that player may choose not to
activate a group and pass play back to his opponent.
Related Topics: Activation, Actions, Group

Active Missions
During a campaign, an active mission is any available story
mission or side mission that the heroes can choose to resolve.
Related Topics: Missions

• During a campaign:
-- A Rebel player performs the first activation.
IMPERIAL ASSAULT-CORE GAME

Rules Reference guide

3

Adjacent
A space is adjacent to each other space that shares an edge or
corner with the space.
• Two spaces that share only an edge that is a wall, blocking
terrain, or a door are not adjacent.
• A figure is not considered to be adjacent to itself.
• Two figures that are in adjacent spaces are adjacent figures.
These figures are one space away from each other. This means
that a O (ranged) attack targeting an adjacent figure needs at
least 1 Accuracy to not miss.
• Spaces on either side of the diagonal intersection of walls and/
or blocking terrain are not adjacent to each other (see example
#16 in “Appendix I - Line of Sight Examples” on page 26).
Related Topics: Accuracy, Melee Attack, Movement, Ranged
Attack

Affiliation
Each figure belongs to one of three affiliations: Rebel (V),
Imperial (U), or Mercenary (W). All heroes are V figures,
while each other figure’s affiliation is shown on the upper-right
corner of its Deployment card.
• During a campaign, U and W figures are friendly to one
another and hostile toward the V figures. All V figures are
friendly to each other and hostile toward all U and W figures.
• During a skirmish, all of a player’s Deployment cards must
have the same affiliation. All figures belonging to that player
are friendly to each other, while all figures belonging to his
opponent are hostile toward his figures.

immediately resolve the listed mission and then discard the
Agenda card.
• Ongoing: Some Agenda cards are placed in the Imperial
player’s play area after purchasing. These cards have an
ongoing effect and remain in play until discarded by another
effect. These Agenda cards are kept with the Imperial player’s
components between sessions.
• Kept Secret: If the card says “keep this card secret” the
Imperial player keeps the card hidden from the Rebel players.
He resolves the effect at a later point in the campaign as
instructed on the card. These Agendas are kept with the
Imperial player’s components between sessions until resolved.
All of these cards cost one influence but may cost additional
influence when resolved.

Building the Agenda Deck
During campaign setup, the Imperial player chooses six sets of
Agenda cards and shuffles them together to create his Agenda
deck for the campaign.
• Each Agenda set consists of three cards. The card’s set is
written on the upper right corner of the card.
• The Imperial player cannot choose an Agenda set if it contains
a card with a listed time period range that does not include the
time period of the campaign.
• An Agenda’s set is only used for building the deck at the start
of a campaign and has no other game effect.
• All Agenda cards not chosen during campaign setup are
returned to the game box and are not used during this
campaign.

Related Topics: Friendly Figure, Hostile Figure, Imperial Figures

Related Topics: Forced Missions, Hidden Information, Influence,
Imperial Upgrade Stage, Time Period

Agenda Cards

Allies

During a campaign, the Imperial player can purchase Agenda
cards. These cards have a wide range of powerful abilities and are
usually discarded after use.
• The Imperial player can purchase Agenda cards by spending
influence during the Imperial Upgrade Stage.
• During campaign setup, the Imperial player builds his Agenda
deck by choosing six sets of Agenda cards (see “Building the
Agenda Deck” on the right).
• When an Agenda card is discarded, it is returned to the game
box and is not used for the remainder of the campaign.

Types of Agenda Cards
There are four types of Agenda cards:
• Side Mission: Some Agenda cards are played as side missions.
After purchasing one of these cards, place it faceup on the
table; it is now an active side mission. This Agenda card is kept
with the active missions between sessions. Discard the card
after the mission is resolved.
• Forced Mission: Some Agenda cards force players to resolve a
specific mission. After purchasing one of these cards, players

4 Rules Reference guide
IMPERIAL ASSAULT-CORE GAME

During a campaign, players can gain access to special figures as
mission rewards. These figures are collectively referred to as allies.
• All figures corresponding to Rebel Deployment cards are allies.
All figures corresponding to unique Imperial Deployment
cards (such as “Darth Vader”) are villains. Villains follow all
general ally rules listed in this section.
• Allies cannot be used in a mission until claimed as a reward
or granted by another game effect.
• Allies follow all rules for other figures that have Deployment
cards. The ally is considered to be friendly to any other figures
controlled by that player and other friendly players.
• When an ally is defeated, it is removed from the map and
cannot be redeployed for the remainder of the mission. The
ally may be used in future missions following normal rules.
• Certain missions can feature allies who have no corresponding
Deployment card. These allies activate during the round as
normal. Mark the figure with a strain token when it has activated.
• In the core game, allies are represented by tokens instead of
plastic figures. The art on each token matches the art on the
corresponding Deployment card.

Villains
Imperial allies are referred to as villains. They follow all of the
same rules as allies, in addition to the following:
• Once gained as a reward, villains (such as “Darth Vader”) can
be brought into any mission as an open group.

Rebel Allies
Once Rebel players gain an ally as a reward, they can bring that
ally to any mission following these rules:
• Immediately after deploying hero figures to the map during
setup, Rebel players can choose to deploy up to one ally. They
place all figures corresponding to the ally’s Deployment card
as close to the Rebel entrance token as possible.
The Imperial player then gains threat equal to the deployment
cost listed on the Ally card and may immediately resolve an
optional deployment. When using an ally in a mission, give
the ally’s Deployment card to one Rebel player. When it is their
opportunity to resolve an activation, Rebel players can choose
to activate an ally, collectively controlling it. After activating an
ally, exhaust its Deployment card, and then the Imperial player
performs an activation. Rebel allies are often rewarded from
green Side Mission cards.
• Rebel allies are not heroes. During their activation, they
cannot interact with crates or rest. Rebel allies can perform
only one attack each activation, and follow all other rules for
non-hero figures.
• The term “Rebel figures” includes all heroes as well as
Rebel allies.
• If an ally has both a regular and elite Deployment card, only
the regular card can be used as an ally. If an ally is rewarded to
the heroes and the heroes have already earned that ally, they
can use either the elite or regular Deployment card.
• Some missions give heroes control of a specific ally for that
mission. These figures follow all normal rules for allies but
have special deployment rules and do not give the Imperial
player additional threat or an optional deployment. These
figures do not restrict heroes from choosing to deploy another
ally to the mission.
Related Topics: Open Groups, Deployment, Missions, Unique

Attachment
Some Imperial Class cards list the word “Attachment” above their
abilities. These cards can be attached to Deployment cards as
follows:

• Many attachments require the group to have a specific trait,
such as “Trooper.” Attachments with these restrictions
cannot be played on a group that does not have the trait.
Related Topics: Class Cards, Deployment, Deployment Cards

Attacks
Figures perform attacks to attempt to defeat hostile figures.
Each attack uses an attack type (Melee: P or Ranged: O), attack
dice, and B (surge) abilities. For a hero, this information
is found on his weapon Item card. For any other figure, this
information is found on its Deployment card.

Steps of an Attack
When a figure performs an attack, it resolves the following steps:
1. Declare Target: Based upon its attack type (P or O), the figure
performing the attack (referred to as the attacker) declares one
eligible target for the attack (referred to as the target).
-- For a melee attack (P), an eligible target is any hostile figure
adjacent to the attacker. For a ranged attack (O), an eligible
target is any hostile figure within line of sight of the attacker.
2. Roll Dice: The attacker rolls his attack dice at the same time
as the defender rolls defense dice (listed under “Defense” on
the target figure’s Hero sheet or Deployment card).
3. Rerolls: If players have any effects that reroll dice, they are
resolved now.
-- Each die may be rerolled only once per attack regardless of
who is rerolling the die.
4. Apply Modifiers: If players have any effects that gain or
remove icons or Accuracy, they are applied at this time. This
includes spending F (evade) results to remove B results.
Any B abilities that provide modifiers are not resolved until
step 5.
5. Spend Surges: If the attacker has any B results, he may
spend them to trigger special abilities.
6. Check Accuracy: If performing a ranged attack (O) the total
Accuracy value must be equal to or greater than the number
of spaces the target is away from the attacker. (See “Counting
Spaces” on page 9). If the total Accuracy value is less than
this number, the attack is a miss.
7. Calculate Damage: The total number of G (block) results is
subtracted from the total number of H (damage) results, and
then the target suffers all remaining H.

• When the Imperial player deploys figures to the map, he may
take one or more “Attachment” cards and place them on the
figures’ corresponding Deployment card. The abilities on the
cards apply to all figures in the group.
• When the last figure in a group is defeated, return any cards
attached to the Deployment card to the Imperial player’s play
area. He may attach these cards when deploying figures in the
future, following the rules above.

IMPERIAL ASSAULT-CORE GAME

Rules Reference guide

5

Special situations regarding attacks
• Unlike heroes, a figure that has a Deployment card can use
only one of its actions to attack per activation. This includes
using special actions that involve performing one or more
attacks (such as the Nexu’s “Pounce” or Darth Vader’s
“Brutality”).
-- If an ability allows a figure to perform an attack outside of
its activation, this attack does not count toward the limit of
one attack per activation.
• A figure cannot target an empty space with an attack.
• A figure cannot target a friendly figure with an attack. Note that
friendly figures may suffer H from some abilities, such as Blast.
• Dice rolled by the attacker are referred to as the attack
pool, while all dice rolled by the defender are referred to as
the defense pool.
• Red, blue, yellow, and green dice are referred to as attack
dice. Black and white dice are referred to as defense dice.
• The keyword abilities Blast and Cleave, and any keyword that
causes a condition, all require the target of the attack to suffer
one or more H to trigger.
• Any ability that is resolved “while attacking” or “while
defending” can be used at any point during the attack with
the following exceptions:
-- An ability that adds dice to a dice pool can only be used
immediately before step 2 of the attack.
-- An ability that allows a player to reroll dice can only be used
during step 3 of the attack.
-- An ability that allows a player to modify die results can only
be used during step 4 of the attack.
• Some abilities allow players to perform an attack with a hostile
figure. To resolve such an attack, the player resolving the
ability controls the hostile figure for the duration of that attack.
-- The player resolving the ability chooses the target of the
attack. All figures are considered hostile when choosing a
target for this attack. The figure cannot target itself.
-- The player resolving the ability rolls the attack dice and can
use any of the figure’s abilities as if the figure were his own.
• An ability that does not involve an attack but causes a figure
to suffer damage (such as Darth Vader’s “Force Choke”) is not
considered to be an attack.
• During a campaign, a hero performing an attack may spend
1B to recover 1C. Limit once per attack.
• During a campaign, when a hero declares the target of his
attack he must also declare one of his weapons to use for this
attack.
Related Topics: Blast, Cleave, Conditions, Conflicts, Convert,
Counting Spaces, Damage, Health, Item Cards, Line of Sight,
Melee Attack, Miss, Surges, Ranged Attack, Target

6 Rules Reference guide
IMPERIAL ASSAULT-CORE GAME

Attacking Objects
Mission rules can allow a figure to attack objects, such as doors or
tokens.
• Mission rules specify how much Health the object has. Any
H it suffers is placed on or adjacent to the object. If an object
suffers H equal to or greater than its Health, it is destroyed
and removed from the map. If the object is a door, it is
considered to have opened.
• Many abilities that modify attacks can also affect objects that
can be attacked, but some cannot. An ability that refers to a
target can be used when attacking an object, but an ability that
refers to a figure cannot. If the ability can modify any attack
and does not specify target or figure, it can be used when
attacking an object.
• Abilities that affect objects only affect objects that can be attacked.
• Conditions cannot be applied to objects, and objects cannot
suffer C. Objects cannot be pushed.
• Mission rules specify if the object rolls defense dice or has any
inherent G while being attacked. If it does not list a die color,
it does not roll any dice.
• If a figure is in the same space as the token, the figure and
token are targeted for attacks independently. Neither the figure
nor the token block line of sight to the other.
• The Blast and Cleave keywords can affect objects.
If a figure is in the same space as the token, the figure and
token are considered adjacent for the purposes of Blast and
Cleave.
• When attacking a door, using an ability that affects a door,
or counting spaces to a door, the door is considered to be
occupying each empty space with which it shares an edge.
• The spaces that share an edge with a door are the only
spaces that are considered to be adjacent to that door. When
declaring a P (melee) attack targeting a door, the attacker must
be in one of those spaces. If the attacker has Reach, he must be
in or adjacent to one of those spaces.
Related Topics: Blast, Cleave, Conditions, Convert, Counting
Spaces, Damage, Doors, Health, Objects, Target

Attributes
During a campaign, each hero has varying expertise in the
following three attributes:
• Strength (K): Strength is a measure of a figure’s physical
strength and toughness. K tests are often used to overcome
physical obstacles or resist a physical threat.
• Insight (J): Insight is a measure of a figure’s mental fortitude
and discipline. J tests are often related to the use of the Force
or general perception and awareness.
• Tech (I): Tech is a measure of a figure’s manual dexterity and
technical ability. I tests are often related to slicing terminals
and repairing objects.

Mission effects often test these attributes, requiring the hero to
roll specific dice to determine if a positive or negative effect is
resolved.

Bleed

Related Topics: Attribute Tests

Blocking Terrain

Attribute Tests
During a campaign, some effects instruct figures to perform
attribute tests. This is listed by placing the attribute’s icon in
parentheses. For example, a mission rule may say, “A hero can
interact with a terminal (I).” This means that the hero can
interact with a terminal to test his I attribute.
To perform a test, the player rolls the dice listed on his Hero sheet
directly below that attribute icon. If he rolls one or more B results,
he passes the test. If he does not roll any B results, he fails the test.
• Each game effect that requires an attribute test specifies the
outcome of passing or failing the test. If only one outcome of
the test is specified, the other outcome has no effect.
• Sometimes an interact requires a figure to pass an attribute
test to resolve an effect. The effect listed after the word “to” is
resolved only if the figure passes the test.
• Each B rolled is a success. If an attribute test lists a number
directly before the icon, multiple successes are needed in order
to pass the test. If he does not roll the required number of
successes, he fails the test but places one strain token near the
subject of the test for each success. The next time any figure
attempts this test, it discards these strain tokens and applies
+1B to his test results for each token discarded.
• If an attribute test gives the option of multiple attributes, such
as “(I or K),” the figure chooses one of the attributes to test. If
this test also requires multiple successes, the number is written
before the first icon. For example, (2 I or K) requires two
successes, from any combination of I and K attribute tests.
• Only heroes roll dice for attribute tests. If an elite figure is
required to perform an attribute test, it automatically receives
1 success. If a regular figure is required to perform a test, it
automatically fails the test.
Related Topics: Attributes, Elite Figure, Interact

Blast
The Blast keyword appears on some cards. If the target of this
figure’s attack suffers one or more H (damage), each figure and
object adjacent to the target space suffers H equal to the Blast
value. For example, “Blast 1H” causes each figure and object
adjacent to the target to suffer 1H.
• This H affects both hostile and friendly figures adjacent to
the target.
• If the target is a large figure, Blast only affects figures adjacent
to the targeted space and does not affect the target figure.
• The H suffered by Blast is not prevented by G.
• If an attack inflicts a condition, such as Stun or Bleed, the
condition is applied only to the target of the attack and not to
figures affected by Blast.
Related Topics: Attacks, Attacking Objects, Conditions,
Keywords, Large Figures, Target

See “Conditions” on page 9.

Blocking terrain is represented by a solid red line surrounding
a space of the map. Figures cannot enter, be pushed into, count
spaces through, or trace line of sight through blocking terrain.
• Sometimes blocking terrain is only on one edge of a space.
Figures cannot move through or be pushed through this edge.
Large figures cannot move onto, be pushed through, or be
placed on a blocking edge unless they have a special ability that
allows this, such as Massive or Mobile.
Related Topics: Massive, Mobile, Movement, Line of Sight, Place,
Push, Terrain

Campaign
A campaign is a series of linked missions with a progressing
narrative. Throughout the course of the campaign, players resolve
a variety of missions and acquire Agenda, Item, and Class cards.
• Story missions are specific to their own campaigns. A story
mission from one campaign cannot be played in another.
• Most side missions can be played in any campaign.
• Players record information about the campaign in the
campaign log.
Related Topics: Campaign Setup, Imperial Upgrade Stage,
Missions, Mission Stage, Rebel Upgrade Stage, Time Period,
Winning the Game

Campaign Setup
Before starting a new campaign, perform the following steps.
1. Choose Player Roles: Players choose one player to take on the
role of the Imperial player. All other players are Rebel players.
Players retain these roles for the entirety of the campaign.
2. Choose Heroes: Each Rebel player chooses one Hero sheet and
places that hero’s Class deck and figure in his play area. Then,
each Rebel player retrieves any Item cards that do not have a
cost from his Class deck and places them faceup in his play area.
-- If playing a 2-hero game, each hero claims a “Legendary”
Reward card. If playing a 3-hero game, each hero claims a
“Heroic” Reward card.
3. Choose Imperial Class: Then the Imperial player chooses an
Imperial Class deck and places the basic card (the card without
an experience cost) faceup in his play area.
4. Build Agenda Deck: The Imperial player builds his deck of
Agenda cards (see “Building the Agenda Deck” on page 4).
5. Build Side Mission Deck: Rebel players build the Side Mission
deck (see “Building the Side Mission Deck” on page 17).
6. Set Up Introductory Mission: Players are then ready to set up
and play the Introductory mission for the campaign.
Related Topics: Agenda Cards, Class Cards, Missions, Mission
Setup
IMPERIAL ASSAULT-CORE GAME

Rules Reference guide

7

Claim

Command Cards

When a player claims a token or component, he places it in his play
area. The effect of claiming a token is explained in the mission’s
rules.

During a skirmish, players play Command cards to resolve a wide
range of powerful abilities.

• At the end of a mission, all claimed tokens are returned to the
game box.
Related Topics: Interact, Play Area

Class Cards
During a campaign, each player has a deck of Class cards.
• At the start of the campaign, the Imperial player chooses any
Imperial Class deck and each Rebel player receives the Class
deck corresponding to his hero.
• At the start of the campaign, each player gains any Class cards
in his deck that do not have a cost (shown in the lower left
corner of the card).
• Players can purchase additional Class cards by spending
experience points during the Rebel or Imperial Upgrade Stages.
• Class cards that have been purchased remain faceup in a player’s
play area. They have ongoing effects as listed on the cards.
• Some Class card abilities have costs. If this cost cannot be paid,
the text immediately following this cost cannot be resolved.
Ability costs are explained under “Abilities” on page 2.
• Some Class cards have multiple abilities separated by a
horizontal line. These abilities can be used independently and
have separate costs and requirements in order to use them.
Related Topics: Abilities, Actions, Attachment, Exhaust,
Experience Points, Item Cards, Play Area, Strain

Cleave
The Cleave keyword appears on some cards. If the target of this
figure’s attack suffers one or more H (damage), the attacker may
choose a different hostile figure or object that he could target
for an attack. The chosen figure or object suffers the amount of
H listed. For example, “Cleave 1H” causes the chosen figure or
object to suffer 1H.
• The chosen figure or object must be an eligible target. For
example, for a melee attack (without Reach), the chosen figure
must be adjacent to the attacker.
• The H suffered by Cleave is not prevented by G.
• If an attack inflicts a condition, such as Stun or Bleed, this
condition is applied only to the target of the attack and not to
figures affected by Cleave.
Related Topics: Attacks, Attacking Objects, Conditions,
Keywords

• During setup, each player draws three Command cards into
his hand. Command cards in a player’s hand are kept secret
from his opponent.
• Each player draws one Command card each Status Phase, plus
one additional Command card for each terminal token he
controls.
• After the effect of a Command card has resolved, it is placed
faceup in the player’s discard pile.
• If there are no cards remaining in a player’s Command deck,
he cannot draw Command cards.
• A player cannot play multiple copies of the same Command
card at the same time. For example, if a card provides “+2
Accuracy,” the player cannot play two copies of the card to
gain +4 Accuracy for one attack.
• When playing a Command card that lists a trait, figure name,
and/or affiliation icon, it is used by a single figure that matches
all of these restrictions.
• Each player has his own deck of 15 Command cards. He
chooses which cards to place in this deck when building his
army. He must obey the following limits:
-- The total cost of cards in his deck must be 15 or less.
-- Each Command card has a number of restriction icons next
to its cost. This is the maximum number of copies of that
card a player can have in his deck.
Related Topics: Actions, Affiliation, Control, Status Phase,
Terminal Tokens

Component Limitations
If players are required to use more components than found in the
game, follow these rules:
• Tokens are not limited. If players run out of a token type, they
should use a suitable replacement, such as a coin.
• If players are required to roll more dice than those included
in the game, they should record the current result, reroll the
needed dice, and combine the results. This does not count
as a reroll.
• If players run out of a card type, additional cards of that type
cannot be drawn or used.
• In a campaign, players are limited to the number of figures
included in the game. For example, the Imperial player is
limited to six regular and three elite Stormtrooper figures,
even if he owns multiple copies of the game.
• In a skirmish, a player can have a maximum of one of each
unique Deployment card in his army, two of each elite
Deployment card, and four of each regular Deployment card.
Related Topics: Imperial Figures, Elite Figure, Unique

8 Rules Reference guide
IMPERIAL ASSAULT-CORE GAME

Conditions

Conflicts in a Skirmish

Conditions are ongoing effects that are applied to figures. Each
condition has an ability that applies to the figure as long as it has
that condition.

During a skirmish, mission rules are resolved first, followed
by effects from the player with initiative, then effects from his
opponent.

• When a hero gains a condition, place the corresponding
Condition card next to that hero. As long as it has that
Condition card, it must follow all rules on the card.

• If multiple mission rules would resolve at the same time, the
player with initiative decides the order of resolution.

• When any other figure gains a condition, place a condition
token next to that figure. As long as it has that token, it must
follow all rules on the corresponding Condition card. The
condition token stays with the figure if it moves or is placed
in another space.
• Each Condition card lists when it is discarded. When this
situation occurs, discard the card or token; the figure no
longer follows the rules listed on the Condition card.
• Conditions can have the Beneficial or Harmful trait. This trait
has no inherent effect but may be referred to by other abilities.
• A figure cannot be affected by multiple instances of the same
condition. For example, if a figure that is already Stunned
would become Stunned again for any reason, nothing happens.
• Conditions are sometimes used as keywords. When an attack
uses a condition as a keyword, the condition is applied using
the following rules:
-- The target of the attack must suffer one or more H for the
condition to apply.

Related Topics: Abilities, Attacks, Initiative, Winning the Game

Control
Many missions require players to control tiles or tokens.
• A player controls a tile if there is at least one friendly figure in any
space of the tile and no hostile figures in any spaces of the tile.
-- If friendly and hostile figures are on the same tile, no one
controls the tile.
• A player controls a token if there is at least one friendly figure
on or adjacent to the token and there are no hostile figures on
or adjacent to the token.
-- If both friendly and hostile figures are on or adjacent to the
token, no one controls the token.
Related Topics: Adjacent

Convert

-- The condition is applied after the attack resolves.

Some abilities convert one die result into another. When resolving
one of these abilities, the old result is treated as if it did not exist,
and is completely replaced by the new result.

-- If it is a Beneficial condition, it is applied to the attacker. If
it is a Harmful condition, it is applied to the target figure.

• These abilities are resolved during the Apply Modifiers step of
an attack, unless they require a B (surge).

Related Topics: Attacks, Damage, Keywords

• After being converted, the new result may be converted again
by other effects.

Conflicts

Related Topics: Attacks

Numerous abilities, mission rules, and other game effects can be
triggered at the same time.

Counting Spaces

• While attacking, mission rules are resolved first, followed by
effects from the attacker (including figures friendly to him), then
effects from the defender (including figures friendly to him).
• Effects from multiple figures under the control of a single
player are resolved in the order of that player’s choice.
• The decision for a player to resolve an optional effect coincides
with the order of resolution. After a player has declined to
trigger one or more abilities, he does not have the opportunity
to trigger that ability until the next triggering instance.

Conflicts in a Campaign
During a campaign, mission rules are resolved first, followed by
effects from the Imperial player, then effects from the Rebel players.

Many effects require players to measure the distance between two
spaces. To determine this number, the player counts the number
of movement points it would take for a figure to move from one
space to the other.
Impassable terrain, figures, and difficult terrain can be moved into
and through without costing additional movement point for this
measurement. This measurement cannot go through walls, doors,
or blocking terrain.
• If a figure’s ability specifies to choose something within a set
number of spaces, players count spaces from the figure using
the ability. Likewise, if an ability specifies to choose an adjacent
figure, the figure must be adjacent to the figure using the ability.
Related Topics: Doors, Terrain, Walls

• If multiple mission rules would resolve at the same time, the
Imperial player decides the order of resolution.
• When Rebel players wish to resolve multiple effects at the
same time, they collectively decide the order of resolution.
• If heroes are required to make a decision as a group and
cannot come to a consensus, the Imperial player chooses a
Rebel player to make the final decision.

IMPERIAL ASSAULT-CORE GAME

Rules Reference guide

9

Crate Tokens
Many missions place crate tokens on the map.
• Crate tokens do not block line of sight or figure movement.
Figures may move through and end their movement in the
same space as a crate token.

• Some damage tokens have a “5” printed on them. Each of these
tokens represent “5” damage tokens, and any player can freely
exchange one of these tokens for five single damage tokens.
• When a game effect mentions the amount of H a figure “has
suffered,” it refers to the total value of damage tokens currently on
its Hero sheet or by its figure.

• If a crate token is in a space containing terrain, the terrain in
the space still takes effect. For example, a space with blocking
terrain that contains a crate token still blocks line of sight, and
figures cannot enter the space.

Related Topics: Attacks, Defeated, Health

• During a campaign, heroes can interact with a crate to claim
the token and draw a Supply card.

Defeated

• During a campaign, at the end of each mission, heroes receive
50 credits for each crate token they claimed during that mission.
• The color of crate tokens has no game effect unless specified by
the mission.
• A crate token with its colored side down cannot be examined
by players. This color is hidden information.
Related Topics: Claim, Credits, Hidden Information, Interact,
Supply Cards

Credits
During a campaign, heroes gain credits at the end of most
missions. During Rebel Upgrade Stages, heroes can spend credits
to purchase Item cards.
• Credits are tracked on the campaign log, and shared by all
heroes.
• When heroes gain credits, they add them to the credits on the
campaign log and record this total. When heroes spend credits,
they subtract them from the credits on the campaign log and
record this total.
• Heroes do not have to spend all of their credits. Unspent
credits may be spent during future Rebel Upgrade Stages.
• At the end of each campaign mission, heroes receive 50 credits
for each crate token they claimed during that mission.
Related Topics: Crate Tokens, Item Cards, Rebel Upgrade Stage

Damage
Many game effects cause figures to suffer H (damage). This is
most often suffered from attacks but can come from a variety of
different sources.
• When a figure has suffered H equal to or exceeding its Health,
it is defeated.
• When a hero suffers H, place an equal number of damage
tokens on his Hero sheet.
• When any other figure suffers H, place an equal number of
damage tokens next to the figure. These damage tokens move
with the figure.
• If a figure suffers H outside of an attack, the H is not
prevented by G, and the figure does not roll defense dice.

10 Rules Reference guide
IMPERIAL ASSAULT-CORE GAME

• A figure cannot suffer H in excess of its Health. Any H over
this amount has no effect.

When a figure has a number of damage tokens equal to its Health,
the figure is defeated.
• When a hero is defeated for the first time during a mission, he
is wounded and flips his Hero sheet to the wounded side. If a
wounded hero is defeated, he withdraws and is removed from
the map.
-- When any other figure is defeated, it is removed from the
map along with any of its condition and damage tokens.
• If a figure is defeated during its activation, its activation
immediately ends.
• During a campaign, when the last Imperial figure in a nonunique group is defeated, the Deployment card is returned to
the Imperial player’s hand and can be optionally deployed later
in the mission.
Related Topics: Damage, Deployment, Health, Reinforce, Unique,
Withdraw, Wounded

Deplete
When a card is depleted, it is flipped facedown and cannot be
used for the remainder of the mission. At the end of each mission,
all depleted cards are flipped faceup.
Related Topics: Abilities

Deployment
Deployment is the primary method by which figures are placed
on the map during a mission.
When a player deploys figures, he places the Deployment card
faceup and in the ready position on the table. Then, he places all
figures from that group in and as close as possible to the location
indicated by the campaign guide or deployment zone.

Campaign Deployment
The Imperial player deploys figures throughout the course
of every mission. The “Deployment and Setup” box in the
mission’s rules lists which figures the Imperial player can deploy
throughout the mission (see “Mission Setup” on page 18).
• Deployment location is determined by named tiles or icons,
such as deployment points, on the map.
• When the location for a figure’s deployment is not specified, it
is deployed as close as possible to any active deployment point
shown in the mission’s diagram, chosen by the Imperial player.
This includes the space containing the deployment point.
-- Green deployment points are active at the start of each
mission. Red, blue, and yellow deployment points are not
active until specified by the mission’s rules, even if another
rule allows a one-time deployment to any of those points.
• When the Imperial player resolves an optional deployment,
for example during the Status Phase, the Imperial player can
deploy any Deployment cards from his hand. He must spend
D (threat) equal to the group’s deployment cost, and then
he deploys all figures in that group to any active deployment
point. Figures deployed as initial or reserve groups do not cost
D to deploy.
• When an initial or reserved group is defeated, except for
unique figures, the Deployment card is returned to the
Imperial player’s hand and can be optionally deployed during
the Status Phase.

• Elite Deployment cards have a red border. All other
Deployment cards are regular Deployment cards and have
gray borders.
• Deployment cards list a number of traits under the name
(such as Trooper). Traits have no gameplay effect but may be
referred to by other components.
• Some Deployment cards have the Skirmish Upgrade trait.
Rules and abilities that reference Deployment cards do not
affect, do not include, and cannot manipulate Skirmish
Upgrade cards unless the rule or ability states otherwise.
Related Topics: Activation, Allies, Elite Figure, Group, Open
Groups, Unique

Difficult Terrain
Difficult terrain is represented by a solid blue line surrounding a
space of the map. A figure must spend one additional movement
point to enter a space containing difficult terrain.
• A figure does not need to spend additional movement points
to exit a space containing difficult terrain.
• Line of sight can be traced through difficult terrain.
• If a space contains a hostile figure and difficult terrain, other
figures must spend two additional movement points to enter
the space (one for the figure and one for the terrain).
• When a large figure enters difficult terrain, it spends only
one additional movement point, regardless of the number of
spaces of difficult terrain that it occupies.

• The Imperial player may deploy any number of groups during
each optional deployment.

Related Topics: Enter, Exit, Line of Sight, Terrain

• Deployment points on the mission’s diagram are hidden
information. The Imperial player must follow these icons but
cannot show the map to the Rebel players.

Doors

Skirmish deployment
During setup of a skirmish, players place all of their figures within
their deployment zone.
• The player who starts the game with initiative chooses his
deployment zone, and deploys his figures first. His opponent
then deploys to the other deployment zone.
• If all of a player’s figures do not fit in his deployment zone, he
must remove and redeploy figures to fill as many spaces of this
zone as possible. Then he deploys any remaining figures as close
to the deployment zone as possible (see “Counting Spaces” on
page 9).
Related Topics: Initial Groups, Initiative, Hidden Information,
Mission Setup, Open Groups, Reserved Groups, Status Phase,
Threat

Deployment Cards
All figures except heroes have corresponding Deployment cards.
These cards list the figure’s name, group size, abilities, Speed,
Health, Defense, and attack.

Doors are represented by stand-up tokens placed on the map.
Each mission specifies where doors are placed.
• Figures cannot move, trace line of sight, or count spaces
through doors.
• A figure can interact with a door to open it; the player removes
the door token from the map.
• If an effect closes a door, place a door token on the map as
shown on the mission’s map. Figures cannot voluntarily close
doors.
• If a large figure occupies spaces on both sides of a door when
it closes, that figure is pushed to the closest empty space (see
“Push” on page 21).
• The spaces that share an edge with a door are the only spaces
that are considered to be adjacent to that door.
• Some missions specify that certain doors are locked.
Locked doors cannot be opened except as specified in the
mission rules.
Related Topics: Attacking Objects, Counting Spaces, Interact,
Line of Sight, Push

• Since W Deployment cards have a different back from U
Deployment cards, the Rebel players will know how many W
and U cards are in the Imperial player’s hand and in reserve.
IMPERIAL ASSAULT-CORE GAME

Rules Reference guide

11

Elite Figure

Exhaust

All figures that correspond to elite (red) Deployment cards are
elite. Elite figures usually have better abilities and more Health
when compared to their regular versions.

Many game effects and abilities can require a player to exhaust
a card or token. Cards and tokens that are exhausted must be
readied before they can be used again.

• Elite Deployment cards share the same name as regular
Deployment cards. When a figure is called out by name (for
example, “Stormtrooper”), this refers to both regular and elite
versions of this figure.

• Cards are rotated 90 degrees to mark that they are exhausted.

• In the campaign guide, elite Deployment cards are always
listed in red. If the card name is shown in black, the guide is
referencing the regular version.
• Elite figures are immune to some abilities. For example, an
ability may say “Choose a regular figure.”
• If an elite figure is required to perform an attribute test, it
automatically receives one success.
• Heroes in the campaign are not considered regular or elite.
• A figure with a gray Deployment card is regular and not elite.
Related Topics: Allies, Deployment Cards, Group, Imperial
Figures

Empty Space
Any space that does not contain a figure is empty.
Related Topics: Place

Endurance
During a campaign, each hero has an Endurance value printed on
his hero sheet. This is the maximum number of C (strain) that
the figure can suffer.
Related Topics: Strain

Enter
Some effects are triggered when a figure enters a space. Entering
a space includes when a figure moves into, is pushed into, or is
placed in the space by an effect.
Related Topics: Exit, Movement, Place, Push

Entrance
Entrance refers to the space containing the entrance token.
Heroes are deployed to the entrance token at the start of a mission
in a campaign.
Related Topics: Deployment, Missions

Escaping
Certain mission rules can allow a figure to escape. In order to
escape, the figure must spend one movement point while in or
adjacent to the space indicated in the mission’s rules.
After a figure escapes, remove that figure from the map. That figure
cannot be affected by abilities, and cannot perform activations.
Related Topics: Abilities, Activation, Movement

12 Rules Reference guide
IMPERIAL ASSAULT-CORE GAME

• Activation tokens are flipped red side up when they are exhausted.
• When a player activates a figure, he exhausts its corresponding
Deployment card or activation token to mark that the figures
in that group have been used during this round.
• Figures that correspond to exhausted Deployment cards or
activation tokens cannot be activated.
• If a hero has multiple activation tokens, he can be activated if
at least one of his activation tokens is ready (green side up).
A hero cannot perform his second activation until each hero
has performed at least one activation.
• Abilities on exhausted cards can be used as long as the abilities
do not require the player to exhaust the card to use the ability.
• If all Deployment cards or activation tokens belonging to a
player are exhausted, he cannot use abilities that must be used
before, during, or after his figure activates.
Related Topics: Abilities, Activation, Class Cards, Deployment
Cards, Ready

Exit
Some effects are triggered when a figure exits a space. Exiting a
space includes when a figure moves or is pushed out of a space, or
is placed in a different space.
Related Topics: Enter, Place, Push

Experience Points
During a campaign, players gain experience points (XP) as
mission rewards. During the Rebel and Imperial Upgrade Stages,
players can spend XP to purchase Class cards.
• Unspent XP is recorded on the campaign log and may be spent
during future Upgrade Stages.
Related Topics: Imperial Upgrade Stage, Rebel Upgrade Stage

Exterior Spaces
See “Interior Spaces” on page 15.

Focus
Focused is a condition that provides the figure with an additional
green die the next time the figure attacks or performs a test. The
condition is then discarded.
• A figure with this condition must gain the extra die when it
attacks or performs an attribute test. The player cannot choose
to save the condition for a later attack or test.
• If a figure has the “Focus” keyword, it may become focused
after attacking. If the target suffers one or more H (damage),
the attacker becomes Focused after the attack resolves.

• If a figure gains the Focused condition after rolling dice for an
attack or test, it cannot use the condition until the next time it
attacks or performs a test.
Related Topics: Damage, Conditions

Friendly Figure
All figures belonging to a player are friendly toward one another.
• A figure is friendly to itself.
• During a campaign, all V figures are friendly toward one
another. In addition, all U figures and W figures are friendly
toward one another.
• Players cannot target friendly figures with attacks.
Related Topics: Affiliation, Hostile Figure

Group
All figures that correspond to a single Deployment card or Hero
sheet are a group.
• A group can consist of one or more figures.
• Each Deployment card shows a number of bars below its
deployment cost. This is the starting group size. This number
of figures is placed when deploying this group.
• While activating a group of two or more figures, each figure
resolves its actions independently. Resolve both actions for one
figure before resolving actions for the next figure.
• When a Deployment card for a group is exhausted, all figures
in that group are exhausted and cannot perform activations.
• If there are multiple versions of the same figure in play (regular
or elite), each group of these figures needs to be differentiated.
-- To do this, players can place an ID token on the Deployment
card and apply matching ID Stickers to the bases of the
corresponding figures.
Related Topics: Deployment, Elite Figure, Exhaust

Health
When a figure has damage tokens equal to its Health, it is
defeated. Health is listed on the figure’s Deployment card or Hero
sheet. A healthy hero who is defeated flips his Hero sheet to its
wounded side.
Related Topics: Damage, Defeated, Healthy

Healthy
During a campaign, a hero is healthy as long as he is not
wounded.
Related Topics: Hero, Wounded

Hero
During a campaign, each Rebel player controls a hero. The word
“Hero” is used to refer to hero figures, the player controlling the
figure, and all of the associated components.

Hidden Information
Some information on cards and tokens is hidden from players,
and cannot be examined. The following rules dictate which
information is known to which players.
• Campaign Guide: Information in the Campaign Guide
cannot be examined by Rebel players. The Imperial player may
examine any information in the Campaign Guide at any time.
Rebel players may ask the Imperial player about any rules read
previously but are not allowed to know information about
mission events that have not yet triggered. Tile names are not
hidden information.
• Imperial Cards: Deployment cards in the Imperial player’s
hand and his reserve are kept secret from the Rebel players.
Some Agenda cards are kept secret from the Rebel players when
purchased and are not shown to the Rebel players until played.
• Other Cards: Players cannot look at the cards in any deck
except for the Reward deck. Discarded cards, active missions,
faceup cards on the table, and cards in players’ play areas are
open information and may be read by any player at any time.
• Tokens: Crate, neutral mission, and terminal tokens often have
hidden information on one side of the token. Players cannot
look at the facedown side of these tokens.
Related Topics: Agenda Cards, Deployment Cards, Crate Tokens,
Missions, Terminal Tokens

Hostile Figure
All figures belonging to a player’s opponent are considered hostile.
• During a campaign, all V figures are considered hostile to all
U and W figures.
Related Topics: Affiliation, Friendly Figure

Impassable Terrain
Impassable terrain is represented by a dashed red line
surrounding a space of the map. A figure cannot enter a space
containing impassable terrain.
• Sometimes impassable terrain is only on one edge of a space.
Figures cannot move or be pushed through this edge. Large
figures cannot move onto, be pushed through, or be placed on
an impassable edge unless they have a special ability that allows
this, such as Massive or Mobile.
• Line of sight can be traced through impassable terrain.
Related Topics: Line of Sight, Massive, Mobile, Movement, Place,
Push, Terrain

Imperial Figures
During a campaign, all figures belonging to the Imperial player
are Imperial figures. This includes all Deployment cards with an
U or W icon.
Related Topics: Activation, Deployment Cards, Elite Figure,
Group

Related Topics: Campaign Setup
IMPERIAL ASSAULT-CORE GAME

Rules Reference guide

13

Imperial Upgrade Stage

Influence

During a campaign, the Imperial player can purchase new
cards during each Imperial Upgrade Stage. He can first spend
experience points to purchase new Class cards and then influence
to purchase new Agenda cards.

During a campaign, the Imperial player is often rewarded
influence. This resource is used to purchase Agenda cards during
the Imperial Upgrade Stage.

• To purchase Class cards, the Imperial player examines all cards
in his Class deck and may purchase as many cards as he wishes
by spending XP equal to the cards’ costs. Once purchased, he
retains the cards for the remainder of the campaign.

• When the Imperial player gains influence, he adds it to the
current influence on the campaign log and records this new total.
When he spends influence, he subtracts it from the current
influence on the campaign log and records this new total.

• To purchase Agenda cards, the Imperial player shuffles
the Agenda deck and secretly draws four of them. He may
purchase any of these cards by spending influence equal to the
cards’ costs.
-- The Imperial player does not show his drawn Agenda cards
to the heroes. Any cards he does not purchase are shuffled
back into the deck without being revealed.
-- Most Agenda cards are immediately read aloud and resolved
when purchased. The only exception is if the card instructs
the player to “keep this card secret.” The Imperial player
keeps the card and resolves the effect when he plays it (see
“Types of Agenda Cards” on page 4).
Related Topics: Agenda Cards, Class Cards, Experience Points,
Influence

• Influence is tracked on the campaign log.

• He does not have to spend all of his influence at once. Unspent
influence may be spent during future Imperial Upgrade Stages.
Related Topics: Agenda Cards, Imperial Upgrade Stage

Initial Groups
During a campaign, most missions provide the Imperial player
certain Deployment cards called initial groups. The figures for these
groups are placed according to the map in the mission’s diagram.
• These cards are not part of his hand and are placed faceup at
the start of the mission.
• When the last figure in an initial group is defeated, the
corresponding Deployment card is placed in the Imperial
player’s hand. He can Deploy these figures during optional
deployments following normal deployment rules.

incapacitated

Related Topics: Deployment, Reinforce

Some mission rules refer to a figure being incapacitated, most
often when a figure is defeated. Instead of being discarded, the
figure remains on the map and has a number of restrictions
placed upon its activation.

Initiative

• The figure remains under the control of the same player.
• The figure does not restrict movement or block line of
sight. Other figures cannot end their movement in a space
containing an incapacitated figure.
• When a figure is incapacitated, it discards all conditions, and
conditions cannot be applied to that figure.
• The figure cannot suffer H (damage) or be targeted or affected
by attacks, abilities, or any game effect except as specified by
the mission’s rules.
-- The figure can still be pushed by a massive figure ending its
movement in the incapacitated figure’s space.
Related Topics: Massive, Missions, Withdraw

During a skirmish, one player has the initiative token each game
round. The player with initiative resolves the first activation
during that game round.
• At the start of the game, the player whose army has the lowest
deployment cost chooses which player starts the game with
initiative. If both players have the same deployment cost,
initiative is determined randomly by each player rolling one
blue die. The player with the highest Accuracy rolled starts
with initiative (reroll ties as necessary).
• The player who starts the game with initiative chooses his
deployment zone and deploys his figures first. Then his
opponent deploys figures to the other deployment zone.
• The player with initiative breaks all ties for mission rules. For
example, if the mission rule moves a token one space toward
the closest figure and there are two figures equidistant, the
player with initiative chooses which figure the token moves
toward.
• During step 4 of the Status Phase, the player with initiative
passes the initiative token to his opponent.
Related Topics: Activation, Conflicts, Deployment, Status Phase

14 Rules Reference guide
IMPERIAL ASSAULT-CORE GAME

Interact

Item Cards

Figures can interact to perform a variety of different tasks. For
example, a figure can open a door by performing an interact.

During a campaign, heroes gain access to a wide range of Item
cards. Item cards include weapons, armor, equipment, and
modifications. All Item cards that a hero has are placed faceup in
his play area.

• A figure can perform an interact as an action.
• A figure must be in the same space as or adjacent to a token in
order to interact with it.
• During a campaign, a hero can interact with a crate token to
claim the token and draw one Supply card.
• Mission rules will often list different tasks that can be
performed by interacting, such as using terminals or retrieving
tokens.
• If the mission rules have an attribute icon in parentheses
after the target of the interact, the figure must pass the
corresponding attribute test in order to resolve the effect of the
interact.
Related Topics: Actions, Activation, Doors, Crate Tokens,
Retrieving Tokens, Supply Cards, Terminal Tokens

Interior Spaces
Some spaces are considered interior spaces and
are affected by some mission rules or keywords
such as Massive. Interior spaces form the
following tiles: 19A–36A and 19B–36B.
• During a campaign, figures with the Massive
keyword cannot enter interior spaces.
• Any space that is not an interior space is an
exterior space.
• All spaces on tiles 38A, 39A, 38B and 39B are
exterior spaces.
Related Topics: Massive

Interrupt
Some abilities use the term interrupt. When resolving an interrupt
ability, players pause the current action of the game and resolve
the interrupting ability. After the effect is resolved, players resume
playing from the point that was interrupted. For example, if an
attack is interrupted, the interrupting ability is fully resolved
before players finish resolving the attack.
• It is possible for a figure to interrupt its own activation.
• If an interrupt makes the current action or ability invalid, that
effect is not resolved. Any costs used to resolve that effect are
still paid.
For example, if a player plays a Command card that allows it to
attack a figure, and the figure interrupts to move out of line of
sight, the Command card is discarded and the action spent on
the attack is lost.
• If two effects interrupt the same action, the player currently
resolving his activation decides the order in which they are
resolved.

• Weapons are identified by having the word “Attack” listed in a
box above dice icons and a O or P icon. Weapons are used to
perform attacks. Each other Item card is used as instructed on
the card.
• Abilities on a weapon cannot be used while resolving an attack
with a different weapon.
• There are three decks of Item cards, differentiated by card
back. The numeral on the back of the Item card is the card’s
tier. During the Rebel Upgrade Stage, Rebel players draw
a number of Item cards from the tier deck listed in the
Campaign Log.
• Some Class cards and Reward cards are also Item cards. These
cards are identified as Item cards by their card face. Each hero
in the core set has one starting Item card in his Class deck.
• Before deploying heroes to a mission, players may freely give
any of their Item cards to other heroes. Item cards cannot be
traded while resolving a mission.
• There is no limit to the number of Item cards a hero can
have; however, each hero is limited in what he can bring to
an individual mission: 1 Armor (R), 2 Weapons, and
3 Equipment (S).
-- If a hero exceeds this limit after deploying his hero to the map,
he must choose which cards to leave behind. Place the chosen
cards aside; they cannot be used during this mission. These
cards are returned to the player at the end of the mission.
-- If a hero brings 2 weapons to a mission, when he declares his
attack, he must choose 1 of the weapons to use for that attack.
• Item cards list a number of traits under the artwork (such as
Pistol). Traits have no gameplay effect but may be referred to
by other components.

Modifications
Some Item cards have the Modification trait. These cards have
no effect on their own and must be attached to (placed on) an
Item card matching its icon (either O or P). Once attached to an
item, the hero can use the modification’s ability while performing
an attack with that weapon.
• Each weapon is limited in the number of modifications that
can be attached to it. This limit is listed as a number of colored
bars on the bottom-right corner of the card. If an Item card
does not have any modification bars, modifications cannot be
attached to it.
• Modifications are not weapons.

• A figure’s action cannot be interrupted while the figure is in a
space containing another figure.
Related Topics: Conflicts
IMPERIAL ASSAULT-CORE GAME

Rules Reference guide

15

• When a hero purchases an Item card, and before each mission,
heroes may attach any of their modifications to other Item
cards. Heroes may also choose to remove modifications from
their Item cards and keep them in their play area unattached.
Abilities on modifications that are not attached to Item cards
cannot be used.
• While resolving a mission, modifications cannot be attached
to or removed from Item cards.
• An Item card cannot have more than one modification with
the same trait attached to it at the same time, excluding the
Modification trait. For example, a weapon can only have one
Barrel modification attached to it.
Related Topics: Attacks, Campaign Setup, Credits, Play Area

Keywords
Keywords are shorthand for longer abilities.
• The following keywords are in the core game: Bleed, Blast, Cleave,
Focus, Massive, Mobile, Pierce, Recover, Reach, and Stun.
• Conditions such as Bleed, Focus, and Stun are also used as
keywords to apply the corresponding condition.
Related Topics: Blast, Cleave, Conditions, Focus, Massive,
Mobile, Pierce, Recover, Reach

Large Figures
Any figure whose base is larger than one space is a large figure.
Large figures must obey the special rules listed below and shown
in Appendix II on page 27.
• When a large figure attacks, line of sight may be traced from
any of the spaces it occupies. When a large figure is targeted by
an attack, the figure performing the attack must target one of
the spaces the large figure occupies.
• Large figures cannot move diagonally.
• A large figure may spend one movement point to rotate 90
degrees (note that this is only necessary for figures with bases
that occupy two or six spaces). When doing this, the large
figure must still occupy at least half of the spaces it occupied
before the rotation.
• When a large figure is pushed or moves a set number of
spaces, its base cannot rotate and must retain its current
orientation.

Line of Sight
Line of sight is used to determine what a figure can “see.” Line
of sight is most often used to determine which figures can be
targeted by a O (ranged) attack.
To determine line of sight, the player draws two imaginary, nonintersecting lines from one corner of the attacking figure’s space
to two adjacent corners of the target’s space. If either of these lines
passes through a wall, figure, or blocking terrain, then the figure
does not have line of sight to the target.
• Line of sight can be traced from or to any corner on the map.
Each line can be traced along the corners and edges of spaces
containing figures, doors, walls, and blocked spaces.
• Walls only block line of sight along an entire edge of a space.
If a wall does not cover an entire edge, then line of sight may
be traced to, from, and through that edge.
• Line of sight cannot be traced through a corner where any
combination of walls and blocking terrain intersect. It can be
traced through the combination of one figure and a diagonally
positioned wall, blocking terrain, or other figure.
• Figures have line of sight to adjacent figures.
• It is possible for a figure to have line of sight to another figure
that does not have line of sight back to itself. This most often
happens when a figure is behind a wall or figure. Thematically,
this represents a figure leaning out of cover to make an attack
and then ducking back behind cover.
• A figure does not block line of sight to itself. The target figure
also does not block line of sight.
• Adjacent figures always have line of sight to each other.
Most of the above situations are shown in detail in “Appendix I Line of Sight Examples” on page 26.
Related Topics: Adjacent, Attacks, Blocking Terrain, Ranged
Attack, Walls

Locked
See “Doors” on page 11.

Massive
The Massive keyword is found on some Deployment cards and
refers to a series of special rules that apply to figures in that group.

• Large figures are subject to all movement requirements
for terrain and other figures, but they are subject to these
requirements only once per movement point spent.

• Figures do not block line of sight to or from a Massive figure.

For example, if an E-Web Engineer moves into two spaces
containing figures, it must only spend one additional
movement point instead of two.

• Massive figures can enter spaces containing blocking terrain
and impassable terrain. They can also move through and end
their movement on blocked or impassable edges.

• If an effect places a large figure in a space, the player resolving
the effect chooses the figure’s orientation. It can be placed in
any legal spaces as long as part of the figure’s base is in the
space instructed.

• Massive figures can enter spaces containing hostile figures
and/or difficult terrain at no additional movement cost.

Related Topics: Attacks, Line of Sight, Massive, Mobile,
Movement, Push, Small Figure, Target

16 Rules Reference guide
IMPERIAL ASSAULT-CORE GAME

• During a campaign, Massive figures cannot enter interior
spaces.

• Massive figures cannot enter spaces containing other
Massive figures.

• A Massive figure can end its movement in spaces that contain
blocking terrain and/or other figures. Any figures in its spaces
are pushed into the closest empty space of its controller’s
choice (taking impassable terrain into account). The player
moving the Massive figure pushes friendly figures first, and
then other players push their figures.
• After a Massive figure ends its movement in spaces containing
at least one other figure, the Massive figure cannot move any
more during this activation.
• If a Massive figure occupies a space containing blocking terrain,
line of sight can be traced to that figure, spaces can be counted
to that figure, and adjacent figures can attack that figure.
Related Topics: Blocking Terrain, Impassable Terrain, Interior
Spaces, Movement, Push

Melee Attack
Some Deployment cards and Item cards are marked with the P
icon. This icon means that the figures can perform melee attacks.
• Melee attacks can target a hostile figure or object adjacent to or
in the same space as the attacker.
• Accuracy is not required while performing melee attacks.
• If a figure does not have the P icon, it cannot perform melee
attacks. An attack targeting an adjacent figure that uses the O
icon is a ranged attack, not a melee attack.
Related Topics: Accuracy, Adjacent, Attacks

Miss
Some effects can cause attacks to miss. When an attack misses, the
target figure suffers zero H (damage).
• The E (dodge) icon found on the white die causes the attack
to miss.
• While performing a ranged attack, the attacker requires
Accuracy greater than or equal to the distance to the target.
If his Accuracy is less than this distance, then the attack
misses.
• When an attack misses, other effects can still be triggered
(such as using the Recover keyword). If the ability requires the
target figure to suffer one or more H, such as Cleave, a miss
prevents that ability from being resolved.
Related Topics: Accuracy, Attacks, Counting Spaces

Missions
Each mission is a game of tactical combat played on a modular
game map and featuring unique mission rules.

Resolving a Mission
Missions in Imperial Assault are played over a number of game
rounds. Each round consists of an Activation Phase followed by a
Status Phase.

Story and Side Missions
During a campaign, players resolve a series of story and side
missions. The rules and maps for each mission are found in the
Campaign Guide.
• During each Mission Stage, the heroes choose one active
mission to resolve.
-- The campaign log lists the type of active mission the heroes
can choose during each Mission Phase. For example, if it
says “Story Mission” the heroes must choose an active Story
Mission to resolve. There is often only one active Story Mission
at a time.
-- Active missions that are not chosen are saved between
sessions and remain active until resolved.
• A mission cannot be played twice during a campaign.
• Side Mission cards list a number of traits under the name
(such as Tatooine). Traits have no gameplay effect but may be
referred to by other components.
• After the introductory mission is resolved, shuffle the Side
Mission deck, draw two cards, and place these cards faceup
on the table. After each non-agenda side mission is resolved,
shuffle the side Mission deck, draw one card, and place this
card faceup on the table.

Building the Side Mission Deck
During campaign setup, players separate the Side Mission cards
into piles by type (color). Shuffle the following cards together to
create the Side Mission deck:
• One red Side Mission card corresponding to each hero in the
campaign.
• Four green Side Mission cards chosen by the hero players.
Heroes cannot choose more than one of these cards that
rewards the same ally, regardless of the ally’s subtitle, such as
“Hero of the Rebellion.”
• Four random gray Side Mission cards. These are dealt
facedown and are not shown to any players.

Forced Missions
During a campaign, certain Agenda cards and events can force
a mission to be played. This most often happens as the result of a
mission reward or Agenda card. For example, if an Agenda card
says “Play ‘Spice Mines of Kessel’ as a forced mission,” players would
immediately play this mission, and then resume the campaign from
the current stage.
• Forced missions are recorded on the “Forced Missions” section
of the campaign log. When a mission is forced and players do
not have time to resolve the mission this session, they should
record the mission in the Forced Missions section without
checking the box. The next time they resume their campaign,
they will immediately play this mission.

After resolving the Status Phase, play proceeds to the next round,
starting with an Activation Phase. These phases are repeated until
the mission ends (see “Winning the Game” on page 25).
IMPERIAL ASSAULT-CORE GAME

Rules Reference guide

17

• Forced missions are resolved between campaign stages. After
resolving a forced mission, players should perform the “postmission cleanup” step of a Mission Stage. Then they resolve the
next available stage of the campaign.

4. Deploy Imperial Figures: The Imperial player deploys figures
on the map as indicated in the diagram.

-- If the mission occurs immediately after another mission is
resolved, they resolve “post-mission cleanup” but do not
resolve any Rebel or Imperial Upgrade Stages before this
mission. The threat level for a forced mission is equal to the
threat level of the most recently played mission.

5. Prepare Dice, Cards, and Other Tokens: Place all dice, the
Condition and Supply decks, damage tokens, strain tokens,
and condition tokens within easy reach of all players.

• Because forced missions are never chosen to be played, they
do not have corresponding Mission cards.
• If players run out of space in the “Forced Missions” section
of the campaign log, they can still play additional forced
missions. Record these additional missions on the back of the
campaign log or another sheet of paper.

Skirmish Missions
The map for each skirmish mission is shown in that mission’s
diagram. The rules for each skirmish mission are listed on
Skirmish Mission cards.
Related Topics: Active Missions, Agenda Cards, Campaign,
Mission Setup, Mission Stage, Winning the Game

Mission Setup

-- If the figure shown on the map has a gray or black border,
the group corresponds to a gray Deployment card.

6. Read Mission Briefing: The Imperial player reads the
“Mission Briefing” section of the mission’s rules aloud to all
players.
7. Deploy Rebel Figures: Rebel players place all Rebel figures in
the space containing and as close as possible to the entrance
token. This includes the space containing the entrance token.
-- Rebel players choose the order in which their figures
are deployed. Before placing their figures, they choose
the Item cards that they will bring to the mission. Each
hero may bring up to 1 Armor (R), 2 Weapons, and 3
Equipment (S).
-- After deploying hero figures, Rebel players may choose to
deploy an ally that they have gained as a reward (see “Allies”
on page 4).
8. Prepare Activation Tokens: Each hero receives one activation
token and places it ready (green side faceup) on his Hero sheet.

Before resolving a mission, players perform a number of setup steps.

Skirmish Mission Setup

Campaign Mission Setup

To set up a skirmish mission, perform the following steps.

To setup a campaign mission, perform the following steps.
1. Assemble Map: The Imperial player assembles the mission’s
map using map tiles as shown in the Campaign Guide. He
places all tokens on the map as indicated in the diagram.
2. Prepare Threat and Round Dial: The Imperial player sets the
threat dial to zero and the round dial to one.
3. Deployment and Setup: The Imperial player takes all
Deployment cards and sorts them as listed in the “Deployment
and Setup” box of the mission rules. This box has up to four
different elements:
-- Initial Groups: He takes the listed Deployment cards and
places them faceup on the table.
-- Reserved Groups: He secretly takes the listed Deployment
cards, and places them in a facedown pile out of the way.
-- Open Groups: He secretly chooses a number of Deployment
cards as listed in the “Open Groups” section and places
them in his hand.
»» He may choose any non-Rebel Deployment cards not
used in the initial or reserved groups. He cannot choose
an ally that he has not gained as a reward.
»» All Deployment cards not in initial, reserved, or open
groups are returned to the game box and not used during
this mission.
-- Special Setup: Follow any rules listed in this section. Many
missions do not have special setup rules.

18 Rules Reference guide
IMPERIAL ASSAULT-CORE GAME

1. Bring Armies and Command Cards: Both players
simultaneously place their Deployment cards faceup in their
play areas. Then each player shuffles his deck of 15 Command
cards and places it by his Deployment cards.
2. Determine Initiative: The player who has the lowest total cost
of Deployment cards chooses which player begins the game
with the initiative token. In the case of a tie, players determine
initiative randomly.
3. Determine and set up Skirmish Mission: The player with
initiative shuffles his deck of Skirmish Mission cards and
draws one card. This card lists the name of the mission, which
map it is played on, and the special rules for the mission.
After drawing this card, players refer to the matching skirmish
mission’s diagram, and then build the map and place tokens on
it as shown.
-- Player’s place only the “A” or “B” tokens on the map that
match the Skirmish Mission card’s letter.
4. Deploy Units: The player with initiative chooses either the
red or blue deployment zone shown on the skirmish mission’s
diagram. He deploys all of his figures in this deployment zone.
Then his opponent deploys all of his figures in the other
deployment zone.
5. Draw Command Cards: Each player draws three cards from
his Command deck.
Related Topics: Allies, Campaign Setup, Command Cards,
Deployment, Deployment Cards

Mission Stage

Mobile

During a campaign, players choose and resolve missions during
the Mission Stage. This stage consists of the following steps:

Figures that have this keyword ignore additional movement costs
when entering difficult terrain and spaces containing hostile figures.
They can also enter impassable and blocking terrain, and can end
their movement in a space containing impassable or blocking terrain.

1. Choose Mission: Rebel players refer to the campaign log to
determine their next mission. If this reads “Side Mission,”
the heroes choose one of the active Side Mission cards. If
this reads “Story Mission,” they must choose an active Story
Mission card.

• If a figure with mobile occupies a space containing blocking
terrain, line of sight can be traced to that figure, spaces can be
counted to that figure, and adjacent figures can attack that figure.

2. Resolve Mission: Players resolve the chosen mission.

Related Topics: Keywords

3. Post-Mission Cleanup: After resolving the mission, players
perform the following:

Modifications

-- All wounded heroes flip their hero sheets to their healthy
side. Then heroes recover all H (damage) and C (strain).
-- Heroes shuffle all of their Supply cards back into the Supply
deck.
-- Heroes gain 50 credits for each crate token claimed during
the mission and then discard the tokens.
-- Return the Mission card corresponding to the mission that
was just resolved to the game box.
-- If players just resolved the introductory mission, shuffle the
Side Mission deck. Then draw two cards and place them faceup
on the table. These are now active missions.
If players just resolved a non-agenda Side Mission, shuffle
the Side Mission deck, draw one card, and place it faceup on
the table. This card is now an active mission.
After resolving “Post-Mission Cleanup,” players proceed to the
next stage listed on the campaign log.
Related Topics: Crate Tokens, Missions, Supply Cards

Mission Tokens
These tokens are used to represent objects, people, or general
points of interest. Mission tokens have no inherent effects and act
as specified in the mission.
• There are three types of mission tokens. If a mission token
shows a V icon, it is referred to as a Rebel mission token.
Likewise, a mission token that shows a U icon is referred to
as an Imperial mission token. All other mission tokens are
neutral mission tokens.
• Mission tokens do not block line of sight or affect figure
movement. Figures can enter and end their movement in the
same space as a mission token.
• If a mission token is in a space containing terrain, the terrain
in the space still takes effect. For example, a space with
blocking terrain that contains a mission token still blocks line
of sight, and figures cannot enter the space.
• The colored border of mission tokens has no game effect
unless specified by the mission.
• A neutral mission token with its colored side down cannot be
examined by players. This color is hidden information.
Related Topics: Control, Hidden Information, Interact

See “Item Cards” on page 15.

Movement
When a figure performs a move, it gains movement points equal to
its Speed.
• Performing a move does not move the figure; it only provides
movement points that may be spent during that figure’s
activation. This means that a figure may use its first action to
perform a move, followed by an attack, and then spend the
movement points. It may even spend some movement points
before the attack and then some of them after the attack.
• Figures can move diagonally along the corner of any
individual wall, blocking terrain, or impassable terrain, but a
figure cannot move through the diagonal intersection of any
combination of wall, blocking terrain, or impassable terrain
(see “Appendix II - Movement Examples” on page 27).
• Move X Spaces: If an ability moves a figure a listed number
of spaces, this movement ignores movement point costs. All
other effects of terrain and figures apply (for example the
figure cannot end its movement in another figure’s space).
When moving in this way, a large figure’s base cannot rotate
and must retain its orientation.
• Figures can move through other figures’ spaces. The figure
must spend one additional movement point to enter a space
containing a hostile figure. Some abilities allow figures to move
through spaces containing blocking and impassable terrain.
The definition of “moving through a space” is that the figure
can enter the space as long as it does not end its movement
in the space. The figure cannot enter the space if this would
spend its last movement point.
• There are rare situations where a figure can lose all of its
movement points while in a space where it cannot end its
movement (such as in another figure’s space). In this situation,
place the moving figure in the closest empty space.
If there are multiple closest empty spaces, the player
controlling the figure chooses.
• Large figures have additional movement restrictions. See
“Large Figures” on page 16 and “Appendix II - Movement
Examples” on page 27.
Related Topics: Adjacent, Counting Spaces, Large Figures,
Movement Points, Place, Push, Terrain
IMPERIAL ASSAULT-CORE GAME

Rules Reference guide

19

Movement Points

Objects

There are numerous methods by which a figure can gain
movement points. A figure can spend one movement point to
move to any adjacent space.

Objects refer to elements on the map that are not figures. Doors,
crates, and terminals are all considered to be objects.

• Any time a figure gains movement points, they are added to
the remaining total of movement points that figure possesses.
• A figure is not required to spend all of the movement points
it possesses, but at the end of its activation, it loses all of its
remaining movement points.
• Spending movement points is not an action and may be done
at any time during the figure’s activation. They can be spent
before or after performing any action but cannot be spent
while resolving an action.
• If a figure gains movement points when it is not its activation,
those movement points must be spent immediately as an
interrupt or be lost.
• Movement points are an intangible resource that are not
tracked by tokens. When a figure gains movement points, the
player announces how many movement points his figure has
and counts out loud as he spends movement points.
• During a campaign, a hero can suffer 1C (strain) at any point
during his activation to gain one movement point. He may do
this up to twice per activation.
Related Topics: Movement, Strain

Neutral Figures
During a campaign, some figures are denoted as neutral. These
figures are only present in specific missions. The rules regarding
these figures are described in the mission.
• No player controls a neutral figure. Neutral figures cannot
activate or perform actions.
• These figures cannot suffer H (damage) or be targeted by
attacks, abilities, or any game effect except as specified by the
mission’s rules.
• Figures can move through spaces containing neutral figures at
no additional movement point cost.
• Neutral figures block line of sight.
Related Topics: Line of Sight, Movement

• Most mission tokens are considered to be objects, unless the
mission rules use the token to represent a figure.
• Except for doors, objects do not restrict movement or block
line of sight.
• Objects cannot be pushed.
• Mission rules can allow objects to be attacked by specified
figures (see “Attacking Objects” on page 6).
• Abilities that affect objects only affect objects that can be
attacked.
Related Topics: Attacking Objects, Crate Tokens, Doors, Mission
Tokens, Movement, Terminal Tokens

Open Groups
During a campaign, most missions allow the Imperial player to
choose a number of Deployment cards known as open groups.
• These Deployment cards are kept secret in the Imperial
player’s hand until deployed.
• The Imperial player can deploy figures from an open group
during an optional deployment.
• When the last figure in a group is defeated, the Deployment
card returns to the Imperial player’s hand of Deployment cards.
Related Topics: Deployment, Deployment Cards, Group,
Status Phase

Pierce
This keyword allows a figure to ignore a number of G(block)
results while attacking. For example, “Pierce 2” allows an attack to
ignore up to 2G results.
• If the number of G results is less than the Pierce value, the
excess Pierce value has no effect.
• If multiple Pierce abilities are used during an attack, their
values are added together.
Related Topics: Attacks, Keywords

Place
Many effects place figures or tokens on specific spaces of the map.
• When a figure on the map is placed, it is removed from its
current space and then placed where indicated.
• Placing a figure in a space requires no movement points.
• A player cannot choose to place a figure in a space where
it cannot end its movement, such as in a space containing
another figure, blocking terrain, or impassable terrain.
• When a figure is placed, it enters the space(s) where it is placed.
Related Topics: Enter, Movement, Terrain

20 Rules Reference guide
IMPERIAL ASSAULT-CORE GAME

Play Area

Ready

The table space in front of a player is known as his play area. This
is where a player keeps all game components that belong to him
but are not on the game board, including his Hero sheet, Item
cards, Deployment cards, Class cards, and more.

A ready figure is any figure that is eligible to be activated. Any
card that is not exhausted is ready and may be exhausted to
trigger certain abilities.

• Abilities on cards and Hero sheets in a player’s play area can be
used as explained on the card or sheet.
• All faceup cards in a player’s play area are open information
and can be examined by any player.
Related Topics: Claim

Push
Some abilities push figures. The player resolving this ability moves
the figure the specified number of spaces.
• The figure can be moved in any direction. It does not need to
move directly away from the figure using the push ability.
• A pushed figure is not voluntarily exiting its space.

• A hero is ready if he has at least one ready (green) activation
token on his Hero sheet.
• When a Deployment card is ready, all figures of that card’s
group are ready.
• When a figure or card is readied, rotate its Deployment card to
orient it upright. If the figure is a hero, flip all of its activation
tokens green side faceup instead.
• Deployment cards, Imperial Class cards, and activation tokens
are readied during the Status Phase of each round. A hero’s
items and Hero Class cards are readied at the start of that figure’s
activation.
Related Topics: Activation, Class Cards, Deployment Cards,
Exhaust, Item Cards

• Pushing a figure requires no movement points.

Rebel Upgrade Stage

• If a non-ability effect pushes a figure, such as a mission rule or
if a door closes between two spaces occupied by a large figure,
the player controlling that figure determines its placement.

During a campaign, heroes can purchase new cards during each
Rebel Upgrade Stage. They can first spend experience points to
purchase new Class cards and can then spend credits to purchase
new Item cards.

• While pushing a large figure, it cannot move diagonally and
cannot be rotated.
Related Topics: Exit, Large Figures, Movement

Ranged Attack
Some Deployment cards and Item cards are marked with the O
icon. This icon means that the figures can perform ranged attacks.
• Ranged attacks can target any hostile figure within line of sight
of the attacker.
• While performing a ranged attack, the attacker requires
Accuracy equal to or greater than the number of spaces away
from the target. If he does not have enough Accuracy results,
the attack misses.
• While performing a ranged attack that targets an adjacent
figure, the attacker requires at least 1 Accuracy result or the
attack misses.
Related Topics: Attacks, Accuracy, Counting Spaces, Line of
Sight, Miss

Reach
A figure with this keyword may perform P (melee) attacks that
target figures or objects up to 2 spaces away.
• The attacking figure must have line of sight to the target in
order to make this attack.
• An attack with Reach does not require Accuracy.
Related Topics: Attacks, Counting Spaces, Melee Attack

• To purchase Class cards, each Rebel player looks at all cards in
his Class deck and can purchase any number of those cards of
his choice.
-- In order to purchase a Class card, the hero must spend a
number of XP equal to the card’s cost.
-- Once purchased, he retains the cards for the remainder of
the campaign.
• To purchase Item cards, Rebel players shuffle the Item deck
listed on the campaign log. Then they draw six cards from
this deck and may purchase any number of those cards of
their choice. Then they shuffle any unpurchased cards back
into the deck.
-- If more than one Item deck is listed on the campaign log,
players shuffle and draw six cards from each deck.
-- In order to purchase an Item card, the Rebel players must
spend a number of credits equal to the card’s cost.
-- After purchasing an Item card, Rebel players give the Item
card to the hero of their choice.
-- Immediately before purchasing Item cards, heroes can sell
any of the Item cards they already own. Each sold card
is returned to the game box. Then the heroes receive an
amount of credits equal to half the card’s cost rounded up to
the nearest 25.
-- Item cards without a credit cost can be sold for the heroes to
receive 50 credits.
Related Topics: Class Cards, Credits, Experience Points, Item
Cards

IMPERIAL ASSAULT-CORE GAME

Rules Reference guide

21

Recover

Rest

Some abilities allow figures to recover H (damage) or C (strain).
When a figure recovers, remove the listed amount of damage or
strain tokens from the figure or its Hero sheet.

During a campaign, hero figures can perform an action to
rest. When performing a rest, the hero recovers C equal to his
Endurance.

• Some cards use Recover as a keyword. For example “B:
Recover 1H” allows the figure to spend a B (surge) during an
attack to recover 1H after resolving the attack. He can recover
this H even if the target of his attack does not suffer any H.

• If he recovers more C than he has suffered, he recovers one
H for each C he cannot recover.

• If a hero recovers more C than he has suffered, he recovers
one H for each C he cannot recover.
Related Topics: Damage, Keywords, Rest, Strain, Surges

Reinforce
During the Status Phase of a campaign, the Imperial player is able
to place figures that were previously defeated back on the map.
To reinforce, he pays D (threat) equal to the figure’s
reinforcement cost. Then he places one figure from that group as
close as possible to any active deployment point.
• Some Deployment cards do not have a reinforcement cost. The
corresponding figures cannot be reinforced. Unless the figure
is unique, it can be deployed again after being defeated.
• The reinforcement cost of a figure is listed on its Deployment
card directly to the right of its deployment cost.
• A figure can be reinforced only if at least one other figure from
its group is on the map.
• The Imperial player can reinforce multiple figures during each
Status Phase (including figures from the same group), as long
as he spends the D individually for each figure.
• The Imperial player cannot reinforce a figure from a group
that has figures on the map equal to its group limit.
Related Topics: Deployment, Group, Unique

Reroll
See Step 3 of “Attacks” on page 5.

Reserved Groups
During a campaign, many missions provide the Imperial player
certain Deployment cards called reserved groups.
• These cards are not part of his hand and are kept facedown on
the table. They cannot be deployed or reinforced while facedown.
Rebel players cannot look at reserved Deployment cards.
• Mission rules specify when and how these figures can be
deployed to the map.

Related Topics: Actions, Damage, Endurance, Recover, Strain

Retrieving Tokens
Some missions allow figures to retrieve specific tokens. A figure
adjacent to or in the same space as the token can perform an
interact to retrieve the token. Place the token on the figure’s base
to mark that the figure is now carrying that token. The token now
moves with the figure.
• A carried token cannot be retrieved by other figures, traded to
other figures, or voluntarily dropped.
• If a figure is defeated, any tokens that it is carrying are dropped
in its space. This includes when a hero becomes wounded or if
he withdraws.
• Mission rules specify the effect and purpose of retrieving
tokens.
• At the end of a mission, all carried tokens are returned to the
game box.
• Retrieving a token is not claiming a token.
Related Topics: Claim, Interact, Mission Tokens

Reward Cards
During a campaign, players can gain cards from the Reward deck.
This deck contains Item cards and Class cards that cannot be
purchased and are usually gained only as a mission reward.
• Players always gain specific Reward cards from the deck.
• In a three-hero game, each player receives a “Heroic” Reward
card at the start of the campaign. In a two-hero game, each
player receives a “Legendary” Reward card (see “Campaign
Setup” on page 7).
• Players can look at cards in the Reward deck at any time.
• Heroes cannot give their Reward cards to other heroes, and
cannot sell Reward cards.
Related Topics: Class Cards, Item Cards

Running Out of Components
See “Component Limitations” on page 8.

• When the last figure in a non-unique reserved group is defeated,
the matching Deployment card is placed in the Imperial player’s
hand. He can then deploy these figures during an optional
deployment following normal deployment rules.

Skirmish

Related Topics: Deployment, Hidden Information, Mission Setup

• Any rules in this Rules Reference Guide that specify “during a
campaign” do not apply to skirmish missions.

A skirmish is a special mission in which two players build armies
of figures and compete to acquire 40 victory points.

• The basic rules for playing a skirmish and building an army
can be found in the Skirmish Guide.

22 Rules Reference guide
IMPERIAL ASSAULT-CORE GAME

Related Topics: Missions, Mission Setup, Winning the Game

Small Figure

Strain

Any figure that occupies only a single space is a small figure. Some
rules and abilities specify that they apply only to small figures.

Strain is shown as the C icon and represents the loss of willpower
or fortitude. Many game effects cause figures to suffer C.

Related Topics: Large Figures

Strain in a Campaign

Status Phase

When a hero suffers C, place an equal number of strain tokens
on his Hero sheet. When any other figure suffers C, it suffers an
equal amount of H (damage) instead.

After each Activation Phase, players perform a number of cleanup
steps known as the Status Phase.

Status Phase in a Campaign
During a campaign, the Status Phase consists of the following
steps:
1. Increase Threat: The Imperial player increases the threat dial
by the threat level as listed on the campaign log.
2. Ready: The Imperial player readies all of his exhausted Class
and Deployment cards. Each hero also readies all of his
activation tokens by flipping them green-side faceup.
-- Hero Class cards and Item cards are readied at the start of
that hero’s activation, not during the Status Phase.
3. Deploy and Reinforce: The Imperial player may perform
an optional deployment and may reinforce figures. This
allows him to spend D (threat) to place additional figures
onto the map.
4. End of Round Effects: If there are any abilities or mission
rules triggered at the end of this game round, players resolve
them at this time.
-- If playing with three heroes, a hero that has two activation
tokens must give one of the tokens to another hero of his
choice at the end of each round.
5. Advance Round Dial: Advance the round dial by one. Then
players begin a new round starting with a new Activation
Phase.

• Heroes have many abilities that have C costs. These abilities
require the hero to suffer C in order to use the ability.
• A hero can suffer 1C (strain) at any point during his activation
to gain one movement point. He may do this up to twice per
activation.
• A hero cannot choose to suffer C if the amount of C he has
suffered would exceed his Endurance. This includes suffering C
to gain movement points or using abilities with a C cost.
• If an effect forces a hero to suffer C that exceeds his
Endurance, he instead suffers one H for each C he cannot
suffer.
• If an effect allows a hero to recover more C than he has
suffered, he recovers one H for each C he cannot recover.
• If a Hero sheet ever contains strain tokens in excess of that
hero’s Endurance, such as when a hero becomes wounded, the
excess strain tokens are discarded.
• When a game effect mentions the amount of C a hero “has
suffered,” it refers to the total value of strain tokens currently
on his Hero sheet.

Strain in a Skirmish
When a figure suffers C, it suffers an equal amount of H (damage)
instead. The player controlling the figure can prevent any of this H
by discarding one Command card from the top of his deck for
each C that he wishes to prevent.

Status Phase in a Skirmish

Related Topics: Abilities, Damage, Endurance, Movement,
Recover

During a skirmish, the Status Phase consists of the following
steps:

Stun

1. Ready Cards: Both players ready all of their Deployment
cards.
2. Draw Command Cards: Each player draws one Command
card from his deck plus one additional card for each terminal
he controls.
3. End of Round Effects: If there are any abilities or mission
rules triggered at the end of this game round, players resolve
them at this time.
4. Pass Initiative: The player who has the initiative token passes
it to his opponent. Then players begin a new round starting
with a new Activation Phase.
Related Topics: Command Cards, Control, Deployment,
Initiative, Ready, Reinforce, Terminal Tokens, Threat

See “Conditions” on page 9.

Supply Cards
During a campaign, a hero can interact with a crate token to claim
the token and draw one Supply card. The card is placed faceup in
the hero’s play area and can be used as instructed on the card.
• Most Supply cards are discarded after use.
• Supply cards cannot be traded to different heroes.
• After a mission ends, all Supply cards are shuffled back into
the Supply deck, whether they were used or not.
Related Topics: Claim, Credits, Crate Tokens

IMPERIAL ASSAULT-CORE GAME

Rules Reference guide

23

Surges
Surges are results represented by B icons. They are gained
during an attack and can be spent to trigger certain abilities.
• Each F (evade) result removes one B result. This effectively
reduces the number of B the attacker can spend by one.

• Colored borders that do not fully encompass a space or group
of spaces are terrain edges. The terrain rules are only applied
to the colored edge of this space and not the space itself.
• Tokens in a space have no effect on the space’s terrain.
• Solid red lines are blocking terrain (see page 7).

• Any B not spent during an attack are lost.

• Dotted red lines are impassable terrain (see page 13).

• During a campaign, a hero performing an attack may spend
1B to recover 1C.

• Solid blue lines are difficult terrain (see page 11).

• Each B ability can be triggered only once per attack.
• A B ability that relates to a keyword, such as Blast, Cleave, or
a condition, applies after the attack resolves.

• Spaces that are fully encompassed by a combination of a
single terrain border and walls are considered to be fully
encompassed by the terrain border.

Related Topics: Attacks

Related Topics: Blocking Terrain, Difficult Terrain, Impassable
Terrain, Movement, Walls

Target

Tests

When declaring an attack, the attacker chooses a figure to attack.
This figure is referred to as the target.
• If the target is a large figure, the attacker must target one space
that the target occupies. This space is used for determining
line of sight and some abilities.

See “Attribute Tests” on page 7.

Threat
During a campaign mission, the Imperial player spends D
(threat) to deploy and reinforce figures to the game board.

• If an ability refers to the target space, it is referring to the
space occupied by the defender. If the target is a large figure, it
is referring to the space chosen.

• Each Status Phase, D is increased by the mission’s threat level
printed on the campaign log. Threat level is also frequently
referenced to determine a particular value in many missions.

Related Topics: Attacks, Blast, Line of Sight

• When D is increased or reduced, the Imperial player rotates
the threat dial to display the new total.

Terminal Tokens
Terminal tokens are placed on the map as indicated by the
mission’s diagram.
• In a campaign, terminal tokens have no inherent abilities and
function as described in the mission’s rules.
• In a skirmish, each player draws one additional Command
card during the Status Phase for each terminal he controls.
• Terminals do not block line of sight or movement. Figures can
end their movement in the same space as a terminal token.
• If a terminal is in a space containing terrain, the terrain in
the space still takes effect. For example, a space with blocking
terrain that contains a terminal token still blocks line of sight,
and figures cannot enter the space.
• The colors of terminal tokens have no game effect unless
specified by the mission.
• A terminal token with its colored side down cannot be
examined by players. This color is hidden information.
Related Topics: Control, Hidden Information, Interact

Terrain
Some spaces have colored borders. The color and look of a border
defines the terrain, which has special effects on movement and
line of sight.
• A group of adjacent spaces that share a terrain type are
surrounded by a single terrain border.

24 Rules Reference guide
IMPERIAL ASSAULT-CORE GAME

• The Imperial player cannot have less than 0 D or more than
20 D. Any threat gained or lost beyond these limits is
ignored.
• The Imperial player cannot trigger an ability that costs more
D than he has.
Related Topics: Abilities, Class Cards, Deployment, Reinforce

Through
See “Movement” on page 19.

Time Period
Each campaign is associated with a time period, represented by a
number. This corresponds to a range of time period values found
on certain Side Mission cards and certain cards in Agenda sets.
During campaign setup, set aside any Side Mission cards whose
range of values does not include the number associated with the
campaign. These cards cannot be included in the Side Mission deck.
• If a card in an Agenda set has a time period range that does not
include the number associated with the campaign, the Imperial
player cannot choose that set when building his Agenda deck.
• If an Agenda set or Side Mission card does not have a time
period displayed, it can be used in any campaign.
Related Topics: Agenda Cards, Campaign, Campaign Setup,
Missions

Unique
Each player can only use one copy of each unique card at a time.
These cards are identified by a bullet (•) before the name, for
example, “• Darth Vader.”
• Unique cards are identified by name only. Sub-names,
affiliations, and abilities are not taken into account when
determining which cards have the same name. For example, a
player that has “• Darth Vader, Lord of the Sith” cannot deploy
any other version of Darth Vader.

Tie Breakers
In the rare situation that both players have the same number
of VPs at the end of the game, the player that has defeated the
highest total deployment cost of hostile figures wins the game. If
the result is still a tie, the player with the fewest damage tokens
on his figures wins. If the result is still a tie, the player with
initiative wins.
Related Topics: Campaign, Defeated, Group, Skirmish

Related Topics: Allies

Withdraw

Villains

During a campaign, when a wounded hero is defeated he
withdraws. The hero is removed from the map and cannot be
activated for the remainder of the mission.

See “Villains” on page 5.

Walls

• The abilities on the hero’s sheet, Class cards, and Item cards
cannot be used for the remainder of the mission.

Walls are solid black lines along the boundaries of map tiles.
Figures cannot move or trace line of sight through walls. See
Appendix I and Appendix II for visual examples of moving and
tracing line of sight with walls.

• The player controlling the hero can still help the Rebel players
make any group decisions as needed.

• Walls are not terrain and are not affected by abilities that
affect terrain. For example, Massive figures can enter blocking
terrain but cannot move through walls.

• Withdrawn heroes still receive all hero rewards at the end
of the mission. If a hero withdraws during the final mission,
he still wins or loses the campaign with the rest of the Rebel
players.

• Walls only block line of sight along an entire edge of a space.
If a wall does not cover an entire edge, then line of sight may
be traced to, from, and through that edge.
Related Topics: Line of Sight, Movement, Terrain

Winning the Game
The rules for winning a game depend upon whether players are
playing a campaign mission or skirmish mission.

Winning in a Campaign
The campaign consists of a number of linked missions. Each
mission’s objectives are listed in the mission’s rules in the Campaign
Guide.
The player(s) who win the final mission win the campaign.

Winning a Skirmish Mission
The mission ends as soon as one player has accumulated 40 or more
victory points (VPs). The player with the most VPs wins the game.
VPs come from two main sources:
• Defeating Figures: When the last figure in a group is defeated,
the opposing player scores points equal to the deployment
cost of that group. To track this, the card’s controller places the
Deployment card near his opponent.

• If a hero has an Ally’s Deployment card in the mission, he may
choose to give it to the player whose hero has withdrawn.

• A hero who has withdrawn remains wounded until the end of
the mission.
• During post-mission cleanup, withdrawn heroes are no
longer considered withdrawn. They perform all normal “PostMission Cleanup” steps and participate in all future stages of
the campaign.
Related Topics: Defeated, Mission Stage, Wounded

Within X Spaces
See “Counting Spaces” on page 9.

Wounded
During a campaign, when a healthy hero suffers H (damage)
equal to his Health he is wounded. He discards all damage tokens
and flips his Hero sheet to the wounded side. If his C (strain)
exceeds his new Endurance value, he discards any strain tokens
that exceed his Endurance.
• If a wounded hero is defeated, he withdraws.
• The wounded side of a hero sheet lists fewer abilities and often
has lower Health, Speed, Endurance, or Attributes.
• Once a hero is wounded, his sheet remains on the wounded
side until the end of the mission.

• Card Effects: Each Skirmish Mission card lists a special way in
which players can gain VPs. Some Command or Deployment
cards also list additional ways in which players gain VPs.

Related Topics: Damage, Health, Healthy, Hero, Strain, Withdraw

If all of a player’s figures are defeated, he loses the game
immediately, regardless of victory points.

XP
See “Experience Points” on page 12.

IMPERIAL ASSAULT-CORE GAME

Rules Reference guide

25

Appendix I - Line of Sight Examples
• The part of a wall that partially
extends into a space does not block
line of sight or movement. In this
diagram, only the imaginary yellow
lines along the edges of the spaces (1)
block line of sight and movement.

1

2

11

10

3
4
• Line of sight can sometimes be traced to a figure (2) who
cannot trace it back (3). The lines cannot overlap (4).

5

• Line of sight can be traced along the corner of a wall (10) or
blocked space (11) as long as the line does not enter the blocked
space or cross through an edge completely covered by a wall.

5
12

6
• Line of sight can be traced through the target (5). Figures on
opposite sides of the end of a wall have line of sight to each
other (6), but since the spaces are not adjacent, P attacks
cannot be performed unless the attacker has Reach.

7

14

15

13

• Line of sight cannot be traced through doors (12), walls (13),
non-target figures (14), or blocking terrain (15).

• A figure can trace line of sight through itself and through
its target (7).

8

9

• Line of sight can be traced parallel along a wall (8), blocked
space (9), or door (not pictured).

26 Rules Reference guide
IMPERIAL ASSAULT-CORE GAME

16

• Line of sight cannot
be traced through the
diagonal intersection
of any walls or blocking
terrain (16).

17

• Line of sight can be traced from
the corner of a figure and any
combination of another figure
(17), wall, or blocking terrain.

Appendix II - Movement Examples
3

4

2

1

• A figure can move diagonally past blocking terrain (1),
impassable terrain (2), walls (3), and figures (4). If there is a
figure positioned diagonally to the terrain, walls, or another
figure, this does not cost additional movement points.

8
10

9

5
• Figures that occupy two spaces (8) and figures that occupy
six spaces (9) can rotate their bases 90 degrees for one
movement point. A figure cannot rotate into a position where
it would occupy less than half of the spaces it occupied before
the rotation (10).

5
• A figure cannot move
through the diagonal
intersection of any
combination of walls,
blocking terrain, or
impassable terrain (5).

5
12

7
6
7

7

6

11

6
6

7

• A large figure (a figure that occupies more than one space)
can move orthogonally (6) but cannot move diagonally (7).
Note that not all large figures ignore terrain, only figures that
have the Massive or Mobile ability.

• When a large figure is placed, either by deployment or an
ability such as “Pounce,” locate a space (11) indicated by
deployment or the ability. One space of the large figure's base
is placed in the located space, and the remainder of its base
may be placed in any orientation relative to that space (12),
following placement rules (such as not placing in spaces
containing figures).

IMPERIAL ASSAULT-CORE GAME

Rules Reference guide

27

Index
A
Abilities.............................................2
Accuracy...........................................3
Actions..............................................3
Attack (see Attacks)...................5
Interact.......................................15
Move (see Movement).............19
Rest.............................................22
Activation.........................................3
Activation Phase.............................3
Active Missions...............................3
Adjacent............................................4
Affiliation.........................................4
Agenda Cards..................................4
Building the Deck......................4
Allies.................................................4
Attachment......................................5
Attacking Objects...........................6
Attack Pool (see Attacks)...............6
Attacks..............................................5
Attributes..........................................6
Attribute Tests.................................7

B
Blast...................................................7
Bleed (see Conditions)...................9
Blocking Terrain.............................7
Breaking Ties (see Conflicts)........9

C
Campaign.........................................7
Campaign Setup..............................7
Card Interpretations.......................2
Claim.................................................8
Class Cards.......................................8
Cleave................................................8
Closest (see Counting Spaces)......9
Command Cards............................8
Component Limitations................8
Conditions.......................................9
Conflicts...........................................9
Control.............................................9
Convert.............................................9
Counting Spaces.............................9
Crate Tokens................................. 10
Credits........................................... 10

D
Damage.......................................... 10
Defeated......................................... 10
Defense Pool (see Attacks)............6
Deplete........................................... 10
Deployment.................................. 10
Deployment Cards....................... 11
Difficult Terrain........................... 11
Doors............................................. 11

28 Rules Reference guide
IMPERIAL ASSAULT-CORE GAME

E

M

T

Elite Figure.................................... 12
Empty Space................................. 12
Endurance..................................... 12
Enter............................................... 12
Entrance........................................ 12
Escaping........................................ 12
Exhaust.......................................... 12
Exit................................................. 12
Experience Points........................ 12
Exterior Spaces
(see Interior Spaces).................... 15

Massive.......................................... 16
Melee Attack................................. 17
Miss................................................ 17
Missions......................................... 17
Mission Setup............................... 18
Mission Stage................................ 19
Mission Tokens............................ 19
Mobile............................................ 19
Modifications
(see Item Cards)........................... 15
Movement..................................... 19
Movement Points......................... 20
Move X Spaces.............................. 19

Target............................................. 24
Terminal Tokens.......................... 24
Terrain........................................... 24
Blocking Terrain.........................7
Difficult Terrain........................11
Impassable Terrain...................13
Tests (see Attribute Tests)..............7
Threat............................................. 24
Through (see Movement)........... 19
Ties (see Conflicts).........................9
Time Period.................................. 24
Timing Conflicts
(see Conflicts)..................................9

F
Focus.............................................. 12
Forced Missions........................... 17
Friendly Figure............................. 13

N
Neutral Figures............................. 20

G

O

Golden Rules...................................2
Group............................................. 13

Objects........................................... 20
Open Groups................................ 20

H

P

Health............................................ 13
Healthy.......................................... 13
Hero............................................... 13
Hidden Information.................... 13
Hostile Figure............................... 13

Pierce.............................................. 20
Place............................................... 20
Play Area....................................... 21
Push................................................ 21

I
ID Tokens (see Group)................ 13
Impassable Terrain...................... 13
Imperial Figures........................... 13
Imperial Upgrade Stage.............. 14
Incapacitated................................. 14
Influence........................................ 14
Initial Groups............................... 14
Initiative......................................... 14
Interact........................................... 15
Interior Spaces.............................. 15
Interrupt........................................ 15
Item Cards..................................... 15

K
Keywords....................................... 16
Blast..............................................7
Bleed.............................................7
Cleave...........................................8
Focus..........................................12
Massive.......................................16
Mobile........................................19
Pierce..........................................20
Reach..........................................21
Recover......................................22
Stun.............................................23

L
Large Figures................................ 16
Line of Sight.................................. 16
Locked (see Doors)...................... 11

R
Ranged Attack.............................. 21
Reach.............................................. 21
Ready............................................. 21
Rebel Upgrade Stage.................... 21
Recover.......................................... 22
Regular Figure
(see Elite Figure).......................... 12
Reinforce....................................... 22
Reroll.............................................. 22
Reserved Groups.......................... 22
Rest................................................. 22
Retrieving Tokens........................ 22
Reward Cards............................... 22
Running out of Components
(see Component Limitations).......8

S
Setup
Campaign Mission Setup........18
Campaign Setup.........................7
Skirmish Mission Setup..........18
Skirmish........................................ 22
Small Figure.................................. 23
Special Actions (see Actions)........3
Status Phase.................................. 23
Strain in a Campaign................... 23
Strain in a Skirmish..................... 23
Stun (see Conditions).....................9
Success (see Attribute Tests).........7
Supply Cards................................. 23
Surges............................................. 24

U
Unique........................................... 25

V
Villains..............................................5
VPs (see Winning a
Skirmish Mission)........................ 25

W
Walls............................................... 25
Winning the Game...................... 25
Withdraw...................................... 25
Within X Spaces
(see Counting Spaces)....................9
Wounded....................................... 25

X
XP (see Experience Points)........ 12

Icons
O: Ranged Attack....................... 21
P: Melee Attack............................ 17
H: Damage.................................. 10
C: Strain....................................... 23
B: Surges.................................... 24
E: Dodge (see Miss)................... 17
F: Evade (see Surges)................ 24
G: Block (see Attacks)..................5
D: Threat...................................... 24
Affiliation.........................................4
V: Rebel
U: Imperial
W: Mercenary
Attributes..........................................6
K: Strength
J: Insight
I: Tech

